add policy reference docs (#1199)
linkerd/website: linkerd.io/content/2.11/reference/authorization-policy.md

+++
title = "Authorization Policy"
description = "Details on the specification and what is possible with policy resources."
+++

[Server](#server) and [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) are the two types
of policy resources in Linkerd, used to control inbound access to your meshed
applications.

During the linkerd install, the `policyController.defaultAllowPolicy` field is used
to specify the default policy when no [Server](#server) selects a pod.
This field can be one of the following:

> - `all-unauthenticated`: all requests are allowed. This is the default.

Reviewer: There's also an `all-authenticated`, isn't there?

Author: Correct. Updated these definitions

| field | value |
|-------|-------|
| `matchExpressions` | matchExpressions is a list of label selector requirements. The requirements are ANDed. |
| `matchLabels` | matchLabels is a map of {key,value} pairs. |
{{< /table >}}

See [the Kubernetes LabelSelector reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/label-selector/#LabelSelector)
for more details.

### Server Examples

A [Server](#server) that selects over pods with a specific label, with `gRPC` as
the `proxyProtocol`.

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.linkerd.io/v1beta1
kind: Server
metadata:
  namespace: emojivoto
  name: emoji-grpc
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: emoji-svc
  port: grpc
  proxyProtocol: gRPC
```

A [Server](#server) that selects over pods with `matchExpressions`, with `HTTP/2`
as the `proxyProtocol`, on port `8080`.

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.linkerd.io/v1beta1
kind: Server
metadata:
  namespace: emojivoto
  name: backend-services
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchExpressions:
    - {key: app, operator: In, values: [voting-svc, emoji-svc]}
    - {key: environment, operator: NotIn, values: [dev]}
  port: 8080
  proxyProtocol: "HTTP/2"
```

## ServerAuthorization

> A [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) provides a way to set client
> restrictions on one or more [`Server`](#server)s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) provides a way to authorize
traffic to one or more [`Server`](#server)s.
```

### Spec

A ServerAuthorization spec must contain the following top level fields:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `client`| A [client](#client) describes clients authorized to access a server. |
| `server`| A [server](#server) identifies `Servers` in the same namespace for which this authorization applies. |
{{< /table >}}

### Server

A `Server` object must contain _exactly one_ of the following fields:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `name`| References a `Server` instance by name. |
| `selector`| A [selector](#selector) selects servers on which this authorization applies in the same namespace. |
{{< /table >}}

### selector

> This is the [same labelSelector field in Kuberentes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/label-selector/#LabelSelector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the [same labelSelector field in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/label-selector/#LabelSelector).
```

All the servers that are part of this selector will have this authorization applied.
A selector object must contain _exactly one_ of the following fields:

{{< table >}}
| field | value |
|-------|-------|
| `matchExpressions` | matchExpressions is a list of label selector requirements. The requirements are ANDed. |
| `matchLabels` | matchLabels is a map of {key,value} pairs. |
{{< /table >}}

See [the Kubernetes LabelSelector reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/label-selector/#LabelSelector)
for more details.

### client

A `client` object must contain _exactly one_ of the following fields:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `meshTLS`| A [meshTLS](#meshtls) is used to authorize meshed clients to access a server. |
| `unauthenticated`| A boolean value that authorizes unauthenticated clients to access a server. |
{{< /table >}}

> Optionally, It can also contain the `networks` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, it can also contain the `networks` field:
```

+++
title = "Authorization Policy"
description = "Details on the specification and what is possible with policy resources."
+++

[Server](#server) and [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) are the two types
of policy resources in Linkerd, used to control inbound access to your meshed
applications.

During the linkerd install, the `policyController.defaultAllowPolicy` field is used
to specify the default policy when no [Server](#server) selects a pod.
This field can be one of the following:

- `all-unauthenticated`: allow all requests. This is the default.
- `all-authenticated`: allow requests from meshed clients in the same or from
   a different cluster (with multi-cluster).
- `cluster-authenticated`: allow requests from meshed clients in the same cluster.
- `cluster-unauthenticated`: allow requests from both meshed and non-meshed clients
  in the same cluster.
- `deny`: all requests are denied. (Policy resources should then be created to
  allow specific communications between services).

> [Server](#server) and [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) resources override
> the default configured policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This default can be overridden by setting the annotation `config.linkerd.io/default-
inbound-policy` on either a pod spec or its namespace.

Once a [Server](#server) is configured for a pod & port, its default behavior is to _deny_
traffic and [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization) resources must be created to allow
traffic on a `Server`.
```

## Server

> A Server defines a port, selected across a set of pods, that is subject
> to traffic policy. Note that a Server can select pods across multiple workloads
> in a given namespace; for example, the admin port across every pod in the namespace.
> Note also that creating a Server object denies all communication to that port, and
> traffic will only be allowed if one or more corresponding [ServerAuthorization](#serverauthorization)
> objects exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Server` selects a port on a set of pods in the same namespace as the server.
It typically selects a single port on a pod, though it may select multiple ports when
referring to the port by name (e.g. `admin-http`). While the `Server` resource is
similar to a Kubernetes `Service`, it has the added restriction that multiple `Server`
instances must not overlap: they must not select the same pod/port pairs. Linkerd
ships with an admission controller that tries to prevent overlapping servers from
being created.

When a Server selects a port, traffic is denied by default and [`ServerAuthorizations`](#serverauthorization)
must be used to authorize traffic on ports selected by the Server.
```

### Spec

> A `Server` spec must contain the following top level fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Server` spec may contain the following top level fields:
```

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `podSelector`| A [podSelector](#podselector) selects pods in the same namespace. |

> | `port`| A port name or number. Must exist in a pod spec. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `port`| A port name or number. Must refer to a `containerPort` in a pod spec. |
```
